# BIOMD0000000356: Nyman2011_M3Hierarachical_InsulinGlucosedynamics

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000356.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000356.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
** A Hierarchical Whole-body Modeling Approach Elucidates the Link between in Vitro Insulin Signaling and in Vivo Glucose Homeostasis. **   
Nyman E, Brannmark C, Palmer R, Brugard J, Nystrom FH, Stralfors P, Cedersund
G._J Biol Chem._2011 Jul 22;286(29):26028-41. [
21572040](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21572040),  
**Abstract:**   
Type 2 diabetes is a metabolic disease that profoundly affects energy
homeostasis. The disease involves failure at several levels and subsystems and
is characterized by insulin resistance in target cells and tissues (i.e. by
impaired intracellular insulin signaling). We have previously used an
iterative experimental-theoretical approach to unravel the early insulin
signaling events in primary human adipocytes. That study, like most insulin
signaling studies, is based on in vitro experimental examination of cells, and
the in vivo relevance of such studies for human beings has not been
systematically examined. Herein, we develop a hierarchical model of the
adipose tissue, which links intracellular insulin control of glucose transport
in human primary adipocytes with whole-body glucose homeostasis. An iterative
approach between experiments and minimal modeling allowed us to conclude that
it is not possible to scale up the experimentally determined glucose uptake by
the isolated adipocytes to match the glucose uptake profile of the adipose
tissue in vivo. However, a model that additionally includes insulin effects on
blood flow in the adipose tissue and GLUT4 translocation due to cell handling
can explain all data, but neither of these additions is sufficient
independently. We also extend the minimal model to include hierarchical
dynamic links to more detailed models (both to our own models and to those by
others), which act as submodules that can be turned on or off. The resulting
multilevel hierarchical model can merge detailed results on different
subsystems into a coherent understanding of whole-body glucose homeostasis.
This hierarchical modeling can potentially create bridges between other
experimental model systems and the in vivo human situation and offers a
framework for systematic evaluation of the physiological relevance of in vitro
obtained molecular/cellular experimental data.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
For more information see the [terms of
use](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/legal.html).  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


